In this video I'm going to cover the
lightning quick differences, differences
that are just informational or they
don't require a lot of explanation.
So, the first one I'm going to start with,
which I'm sure you've already gathered
is that you don't have to put semicolons
at the end of a statement. Now, it's okay
if you do it, let's put a semicolon here
at the end of this line and we'll see
that you don't get an error, but IntelliJ
grays it out and it says redundant
semicolon, whenever you see something
great out in IntelliJ it usually means
that you're not using it, like for
example, employees is grayed out here
because we're not using it or you don't
need it, which is the case for the
semicolon. Now this might be a hard habit
for you to break, I didn't find it that
hard to break actually. Now when I go
back to Java though, I have to remember
to put the semicolon, so there is that.
But if you're finding it a hard habit to
break, at least it's not an error but
obviously the more you work with Kotlin,
you don't want to be putting semicolons
there because with Kotlin the more
concise the code, the better. So that's
difference number one. So the next thing I
want to bring to your attention isn't
really a difference, but they're used a
lot in Kotlin so I want you to know
about them and that's the use of
wrappers. We saw one already in the hello
world application when we use print line
rather than system.out.println,
now under the covers we were still
using system.out.println, but
the Kotlin standard library has wrappers
for some of the more commonly used Java
methods, so I just wanted you to be aware
of them because you'll often see the
term wrapper when people are talking or
writing about Kotlin. Okay next is the
concept of soft keywords, now in Java you
can't use a keyword for anything other
than its intended purpose. So if a word
is reserved in Java, it's a keyword you
can only use it for what it's intended
to be used for. You can't use it anywhere else.
Kotlin has the notion of hard keywords
and soft keywords. Now hard keywords are
just like Java, you can only use them for
their intended purpose, but soft keywords
are a little bit more relaxed. You can
actually use them in other places as
long as you're not using
them where they have a special
meaning. So for example you could use a
soft key word as a variable name. If you
want it to, as long as you know you're
not using that variable right where you
would normally use a soft key word as
its intended to be used. Now personally,
I wouldn't do this, I think that it could
lead to some pretty confusing code and
it might run you into trouble at some
point, but you can do it the language
won't stop you from doing it and once
again just like wrappers, I want it to
bring them to your attention, because you
might see the term soft key word and
wonder what people are talking about.
Alright, another difference between Kotlin and
Java and this once again is in the
pursuit of more concise code, is that you
can use square brackets to access
elements in collections. Now, we'll cover
collections later in the course, but I'll
create one now just to illustrate this.
So let me make a few blank lines here and
I'll say val names and I'll make this an
array list, we don't need the angle
brackets because the compiler will
figure it out and we'll say John, Jane
and Mary. Now if we want it to print out
Jane or the second element, we can just
go print line names one and that will
work. So if we run this, we'll see that
Jane is printed out so this is a way
that Kotlin lets us write more concise
code, instead of using names.get, we can
just use the square brackets as if the
collection is an array and note that
when you're working with a map, you can
also use the key as an index and we'll
see that later when we cover collections.
Okay, another informational sort of
called out and that's the string class.
Now, we use strings a lot in our java
applications, Kotlin has its own string
class and I wanted to draw your
attention to that, because its class
hides some methods that exist in the
Java string class, so when you're using
string in a Kotlin application you're
using Kotlin string class and so if
you're trying to call a method that you would normally
call in the string class and it's not
compiling or it doesn't exist, this will
be why. Let's pop over to the
documentation for the Kotlin string
class, so here we are at the
documentation and you can see that it's
in the Kotlin package, where a lot of the
data type classes live, in fact I think
all of them do. And as we can see, it's a
pretty big class, so I suggest that you
come over and take a look at this class.
One thing I will point out is the length
property in Java of course length is a
method but in Kotlin length is a
property, so if you want to get the
length of a string there's no reason to
call a function, you'll just access the
property. So as I said, take a look at the
string class, because when you're writing
a Kotlin application and you're using
string, you're actually using this class
you're not using java.line.string.
Oo it's possible that something
might have changed about a method that
you use a lot. So I suggest that you pop
over and take some time to look at the
string documentation because of course
string is the very popular class, we use it
all the time. Let's go back to
IntelliJ now. Okay so another important
difference between Kotlin and Java is
exceptions, in Java you have to declare
when a method can throw a checked
exception, for example if a method can
throw an io exception and it doesn't
catch it in its code then it has to
declare that it throws io exception.
Well, not so in Kotlin because Kotlin doesn't
distinguish between checked and
unchecked exceptions, so you no longer
have to declare that a function can
throw an exception, in fact the throws
keyword doesn't exist in Kotlin so if
you try to declare which exceptions the
function throws, it's not going to
compile. So if you're wondering why you
never see functions throwing any
exceptions, that's why. It's not that they
can't raise exceptions, it's just that
all exceptions are unchecked and so you
don't have to declare them. Okay next the
ternary operator and if you forgotten
what ternary operator is,
it's when you do something like X,Y,Z,
so you know this is, X is the
condition and then if it's true, normally
there's a variable here you know what
my q equals X, Y, Z. So, if X is true Y gets
assigned to Q and if it's false that
gets assigned to Q well this doesn't
exist in Kotlin, it's been replaced by
the if statement, in fact in Kotlin if is
an expression. So we will be covering
this in more detail later, but for now
just know that the ternary operator
is gone. No longer there in Kotlin. Okay,
the next difference involves the for loop.
Now we're going to cover loops in more
detail later on, for now you just have to
know that the original for loop that we
all know and love doesn't exist in
Kotlin. So in Kotlin you cannot do this,
for i, well let's go into well that
wouldn't even work in Kotlin, but
i equals 0, i less than you know 20.
i++ and then you do something. This form
of the for loop doesn't exist in Kotlin.
Of course in Java, you probably have this.
But this doesn't exist, Kotlin doesn't
understand this and as I said, we'll go
over for loops in much more detail,
later in the course. So another difference
between Kotlin and Java is that Kotlin
doesn't have a static keyword and we'll
see as we progress through the course,
how Kotlin has replaced this keyword
because it depends on whether you're
dealing with a function or whether
you're dealing with a variable. Now one
way that it has done it of course is
with top-level functions and we've
already seen that. Here, we have the main
function outside of a class and under
the covers, this is actually a static
function. Now when I say that the static
keyword is gone, the concept of static is
still there, because don't forget Kotlin
when you're targeting the jvm is being
compiled down to java bytecode which
understands static and what static.
So, when we say it's not there we mean
syntactically, the concept is still there
it's just that the way that you deal with static
functions and static variables is
different and we'll see the different
ways as we progress through the course.
Okay, the next difference which I'm sure
you've also already gathered is that
there is no new keyword, so we never have
to use new and this is just another way
of Kotlin making it more concise, I mean
if the common pattern when you're
creating an instance is to always go new
and then you know the class name with an
uppercase letter and then the
constructor parameters. Why do we need new?
The compiler can figure out
what you're trying to do just with this
part of the statement here, so Kotlin has
dropped new and you don't use it in Kotlin.
Okay, so that's it for the
lightning quick differences.
Now, obviously there are a lot more
differences between Kotlin and Java.
I mean, you know in in some sense that's
what the rest of this course is about,
but if you're trying to get your feet
wet by writing some Kotlin code, now you
already know a few things that you can't do.
And that's it for this video.